Getting to grips with IoT and MicroPython

This last weekend saw our first IoT workshop, already we can say it definitely will not be our last. After meeting Christine from MicroPython at PyCon last year in Karlsruhe and having a chance to see how the technology works we were keen to have her join us in Berlin and run a workshop for the PyLadies. With the number of IoT units raising rapidly, and the projected amount to hit 30 in 2020 it is a hot topic and there was a lot of interest from members to have the opportunity to learn more. As with all our meetups we aim for diversity within participants, trying for at least 50% of attendees identifying as female as well ensuring a safe and friendly environment for all.

Thanks to a our sponsors we were able to host the workshop on 17 April at Thoughtworks office in Berlin and provide each with a LCD touch screen, Humidty & Temperature Sensor as well as Servos and LEDs to start their IoT journey with. 37 PyLadies attended the workshop, each purchasing a MicroPython unit before the event. After an introduction to the Hardware and software by Christine we began to programme ourselves. Participants were given first various tutorials to get started and then challenged to build a Humidty & Temperature reader. All participants got through the majority of the tutorials and some were able to expand on what they learnt and build their own programmes including an adaption of Conway's Game of Life and a multi color drawing app that could be controlled by touch and tilting the controller to change colour.

Participants were also given a presentation from Kellens Sunderland, a software development engineer at Amazon on how IoT is being integrated in the companies Fulfillment Centers and new flag ship Go store, where using computer vision customers are charged for the goods they pick up after walking out, avoiding queues.

MicroPython is the work of Damien George of George robotics in 2013, the product of a successful Kickstarter Campaigne. A lean and efficient implementation of the Python 3 programming language that includes a small subset of the Python standard library and is optimised to run on microcontrollers and in constrained environments. The PyBoard is the official MicroPython microcontroller board, also created by Damien George. Written in C99 MicroPython is open source and under the MIT License can be used and adapteed for personal use, education, or in commercial products. 


A huge thanks to all our sponsors and those that attended we wish you much success with your future IoT projects and watch this space for future workshops.

